In this hands-on activity,
we'll be looking at real time
data streaming from Twitter.
First, we'll open a terminal window and
cd into the directory containing
Python scripts to access this data.
Next, we'll look at the contents
of tweets streaming from Twitter
containing specific words.
Finally, we will plot the frequency
of these streaming tweets.
Let's begin.
First, click on the terminal
icon at the top of the toolbar.
Let cd into the directory containing
the python scripts to access the real time
data from Twitter.
We'll run CD downloads big-data-2 json.
We can run ls to see
the files in this directory.
The file auth should be created containing
your Twitter authentication information.
You could see the separate reading for
how to setup the Twitter app and
how to create this file.
Next, let's run the script live tweets
to view tweets in real time containing
a specific word.
Let's run LiveTweets.py president.
This will show the real time tweets
containing the word president.
[INAUDIBLE] Runs, in the first column,
you can see the time stamp of the tweet.
In the second column,
you can see the text.
When you're done, hit Ctrl + C.
Let's run LiveTweet again using
a different keyword that appear more
frequently.
Let's use the word time,
we'll run LiveTweet time
When we're done, hit Ctrl + C.
We can plot the frequency of these Tweets
by running the script plot Tweets.
Let's run plot, tweet, president to see
the frequency for the word president.
As this runs, we could see
the frequency changes over time.
I can see that the maximum was one.
And a few times,
there were just one tweet in that second.
When you're done looking at the graph,
click in the terminal window and
hit Enter.
Now, let's plot the frequency for
the word time.
Run PlotTweets.py time.
This plot shows that the word time appears
a lot more frequently than president.
We can see spikes in the frequency
of 40 and a maximum of around 65.
When you're done looking at the graph,
click on the terminal window and
press enter to quit.